[IMP] scss: add section, improve preexisting content (#3093)
odoo/documentation: content/developer/reference/user_interface/scss_inheritance.rst

.. _contributing/scss_inheritance:

================
SCSS Inheritance
================

Overview
========

> Managing SCSS assets in Odoo is not as straightforward as it is in some other environment, but it's highly efficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Managing SCSS assets in Odoo is not as straightforward as it is in some other environments, but it's highly efficient.
```

> Modularity is key, the inheritance scheme described further allows Odoo to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modularity is key. The inheritance scheme described further allows Odoo to:
```

> - customise Bootstrap CSS framework;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- customize Bootstrap's CSS framework;
```

- handle two different webclient designs (Community and Enterprise);
- handle backend and frontend bundles separately (including the user's website design);
- contextually load necessary assets only;

> - handle multiple color-schemes (eg. dark-mode);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- handle multiple color-schemes (e.g.: dark-mode);
```

SCSS `!default` directive
=========================

"Direct variables’ overrides" are technically possible in SCSS but may lead to inconsistent results in complex environments like Odoo.

.. code-block:: scss
   :caption: :file:`library.scss`

   $foo: red;

.. code-block:: scss
   :caption: :file:`customization_layer.scss`

   $foo: blue; // -> Don't!

> Indeed, since the compilation process proceed across different interdependent bundles, re-assign a variable in the "wrong spot" may lead to unexpected cascade results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Indeed, since the compilation process acts across different interdependent bundles, re-assigning a variable in the "wrong spot" may lead to unexpected cascading results.
```

> SCSS provide several techniques to overcome these issues (eg. `shadowing <https://sass-lang.com/documentation/variables#shadowing>`_ ), but the most critical procedure in Odoo is the use of the `!default` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SCSS provides several techniques to overcome these issues (e.g.: `shadowing <https://sass-lang.com/documentation/variables#shadowing>`_ ), but the most critical procedure in Odoo is the use of the `!default` flag.
```

> SCSS provide several techniques to overcome these issues (eg. `shadowing <https://sass-lang.com/documentation/variables#shadowing>`_ ), but the most critical procedure in Odoo is the use of the `!default` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SCSS provides several techniques to overcome these issues (e.g.: `shadowing <https://sass-lang.com/documentation/variables#shadowing>`_ ), but the most critical procedure in Odoo is the use of the `!default` flag.
```

> When using  the `!default` flag, the compiler assigns a value **only** if that variable isn’t defined yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the `!default` flag, the compiler assigns a value **only** if that variable isn’t defined yet.
```

> As a result of this technique, the priority of how variables are assigned matches the assets loading order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result of this technique, the priority of how variables are assigned matches the assets' loading order.
```

.. code-block:: scss
   :caption: :file:`customization_layer.scss`

   $foo: red !default;

.. code-block:: scss
   :caption: :file:`library.scss`

   $foo: blue !default; // -> Already defined, line ignored.
   $bar: black !default; // -> Not defined yet, value assigned.

.. code-block::
   :caption: :file:`component.scss`

   .component {
      color: $foo; // -> 'color: red;'
      background: $bar; // -> 'background: black;'
   }

.. seealso::
   - `!default` flag on `SASS Documentation website <https://sass-lang.com/documentation/variables#default-values>`_

> Odoo SCSS inheritance scheme

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Odoo's SCSS inheritance system
```

============================

> The following scheme conceptually illustrates CSS and SCSS variables definition in relation to the compilation order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following diagram conceptually illustrates the compilation order in which the CSS and SCSS variables are defined.
```

.. code-block:: text

    ↓ [Compilation starts]
    ⏐
    ↓ web.dark_mode_variables

>     ⏐   ├─ Primary variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ⏐   ├─ Primary Variables
```

    ⏐   └─ Components Variables
    ⏐
    ↓ web._assets_primary_variables
    ⏐   ├─ Primary Variables (enterprise)
    ⏐   ├─ Components Variables (enterprise)
    ⏐   ├─ Primary Variables (community)
    ⏐   └─ Components Variables (community)
    ⏐
    ↓ web._assets_bootstrap
    ⏐
    ↓ web.assets_backend
    ⏐   ├─ ...
    ⏐   ├─ CSS variables definition
    ⏐   └─ CSS variables contextual adaptations
    ⏐
    ● [Visual result on screen]

.. important::

>    | This scheme is incomplete and doesn't match the actual bundles organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   | This diagram is incomplete and doesn't match the current bundles' organization.
```
